# Bitcoin-Daily-Price-Volatility
I worked on a project based on bitcoin price volatility and leveraged this volatility to find price pockets in bitcoin price fluctuation to realize profits. This project involves data mining from multiple online resources to extract bitcoin prices with a month and hour granularity and storing this data in a Postgre SQL database. Further, I developed an ETL pipeline using Scala for extracting and transforming in Spark to take advantage of the MapReduce framework, distributed computing, and fault tolerance, followed by warehousing the output data in a hive table. This exposure to MapReduce also got me into reading whitepapers and research papers on system design and frameworks. In addition to this project, I computed statistical metrics such as standard deviation, one week & 12 hr moving averages with 6 min data reception frequency to identify buy/sell opportunities and subsequently visualize the profits and transactions using different visualizations such as box plots and Sankey graphs.
Additionally, I also orchestrated the environment using Kubernetes to simulate SQL, Spark, and Python containers for the bitcoin price volatility application. In addition to this project, I also worked on an analysis to identify different medical factors considered by insurance companies for insurance premium calculation based on factors such as age, medical conditions, gender, and state, as well as regular habits such as smoking. For this, I leveraged Python libraries such as pandas, NumPy, scikit-learn, Jupyter notebook, and multiple visualizations such as bar graphs, scatter plots, etc. This project helped me understand the necessary thought process for approaching noisy data and delving deeper into generating meaningful insights.
